Add itn did (#1)
itn-trust/itn-did-spec: README.md

The ITN is a permissioned network of nodes operated by ITN Node Operators.

Each ITN Node is comprised of the following elements depicted in the figure below:

- ITN Agent for Core Services ~ (former name used - Self Sovereign Digital Twin (SSDT) of the Core Services OR Core Services SSDT)
- DLT Gateway: A NodeJS application integrating with the Core Services SSDT, Apache Kafka, and the different DLT networks of the ITN. In the next phase of implementation, the Apache Kafka instances will be connected via message replication to obtain a holistic picture of messages across the network.
- DID Resolver: The DID resolver utilizes the Decentralized Identity Foundation DID resolver and is integrated with the Core Services SSDT.
- Content Addressable Storage Network: Currently utilizing an append-only implementation of a Postgres DB with content-addressable hashes and replication between ITN Nodes. There is an implementation of peer-to-peer replication using the IPFS Cluster.
- DLT Networks: It is comprised of a Hyperledger Fabric network and Arbitrum One EVM equivalent network (with more to follow, in particular, based on Integrated Trust Network (ITN) expansion).

> All applications external to the ITN and wishing to utilize the ITN Core Services must implement an ITN Agent as their abstraction layer through the ITN SDK in the [ITN GitHub repository](https://github.com/itn-trust/itn). An ITN Agent represents a user’s capabilities on ITN and serves as an abstraction and integration layer between ITN and other applications/networks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All applications external to the ITN and wishing to utilize the ITN Core Services must implement an ITN Agent as their abstraction layer. An ITN Agent represents a user’s capabilities on ITN and serves as an abstraction and integration layer between ITN and other applications/networks.
```

Author: Updated. Resolving the comment now.

![ITN Architecture Overview](./docs/images/ITN%20Architecture%20Overview.jpg)

> The ITN Agent utilized in each ITN node is implemented in NodeJS and is comprised of the following elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ITN Agent utilized in each ITN node is comprised of the following elements:
```

Author: Updated. Resolving the comment now.

- API Endpoint Service for both REST APIs and [Decentralized Identity Foundation (DIF) DIDcomm](https://identity.foundation/didcomm-messaging/spec/) messaging protocol for integration with ITN Core Services, other Agents, and Legacy Applications via REST APIs
- Authentication service utilizing [OAuth2 for REST APIs](https://oauth.net/2/) and [DIF DID AuthN](https://identity.foundation/working-groups/authentication.html) for DIF DIDcomm messaging
- An implementation of the [W3C Universal Wallet](https://w3c-ccg.github.io/universal-wallet-interop-spec/) for key and document management
- An implementation of the W3C Verifiable Credential Issuance and Verification standard both as REST APIs and as DIDcomm endpoints
- Implementation of ITN Data Sharing APIs both as REST APIs and as DIDcomm endpoints
- An implementation of ITN Core Services functionality via DIF DIDcomm

> - An implementation of the [W3C/DIF Encrypted Data Vault](https://identity.foundation/confidential-storage/) for document storage currently utilizing CouchDB with Leader-Leader replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An implementation of the [W3C/DIF Encrypted Data Vault](https://identity.foundation/confidential-storage/) for document storage
```

Author: Updated and resolving the comment now.

> Integration of an ITN Agent in any application is achieved through the ITN SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ITN Agent Integration can be achieved through an SDK, as utilized by the ITN.
```

Author: Updated and resolving the comment now.

![ITN Agent](./docs/images/ITN%20Agent.jpg)

ITN Agent is an implementation of the [Aries Agent RFC](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/main/concepts/0004-agents/README.md)
with a flexible plugin architecture.

Depending on which plugins and [DIDComm protocols](https://didcomm.org/search/?page=1) you use, your instance of ITN Agent can
perform a variety of roles:

- Create and manage cryptographic keys
- Create and manage Decentralized Identifiers
- Issue and verify Verifiable Credentials (VCs) and Presentations (VPs)
- Communicate with other Agents over [DIDComm](https://identity.foundation/didcomm-messaging/spec/#discover-features-protocol-20)

Agent provides a common interface for plugins to expand its functionality. It is designed to be modular and extensible,
so you can add new protocols, transports, and managers to fit your needs.

> The agent was written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and runs natively in Node.js, Browsers, and React Native.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Removed and resolving the comment now.

## ITN SDK

![ITN_SDK](https://github.com/itn-trust/itn-did-spec/assets/18353464/6135b073-c085-41fd-8ea4-f80e64e0485d)

The ITN SDK has an Identity Protocol provides methods to manage DIDs.
The ITN SDK has a DID Document Manager provide a set of functions to manage DID Documents.

## Conformance

> The keywords MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, RECOMMENDED, SHOULD, and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted... TBD `Not sure if required`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The keywords MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, RECOMMENDED, SHOULD, and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted according to [RFC2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119)`
```

Author: Updated and resolving the comment now.

- An implementation of ITN Core Services functionality via DIF DIDcomm
- An implementation of the [W3C/DIF Encrypted Data Vault](https://identity.foundation/confidential-storage/) for document storage

ITN Agent Integration can be achieved through an SDK, as utilized by the ITN.

![ITN Agent](./docs/images/ITN%20Agent.jpg)

ITN Agent is an implementation of the [Aries Agent RFC](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/blob/main/concepts/0004-agents/README.md)
with a flexible plugin architecture.

Depending on which plugins and [DIDComm protocols](https://didcomm.org/search/?page=1) you use, your instance of ITN Agent can
perform a variety of roles:

- Create and manage cryptographic keys
- Create and manage Decentralized Identifiers
- Issue and verify Verifiable Credentials (VCs) and Presentations (VPs)
- Communicate with other Agents over [DIDComm](https://identity.foundation/didcomm-messaging/spec/#discover-features-protocol-20)

Agent provides a common interface for plugins to expand its functionality. It is designed to be modular and extensible,
so you can add new protocols, transports, and managers to fit your needs.

> ## ITN SDK

Reviewer 2: @Therecanbeonlyone1969 do we really need SDK section?

![ITN_SDK](https://github.com/itn-trust/itn-did-spec/assets/18353464/6135b073-c085-41fd-8ea4-f80e64e0485d)

The ITN SDK has an Identity Protocol provides methods to manage DIDs.
The ITN SDK has a DID Document Manager provide a set of functions to manage DID Documents.

## Conformance

The keywords MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, RECOMMENDED, SHOULD, and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted according to [RFC2119](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2119)`

## Terminology

1. ITN - Integrated Trust Network
2. EDV - Encrypted Data Vault
3. CAS - Content Addressable Storage
4. DLT - Distributed Ledger Network
5. DID - Decentralized Identifier
6. VC - Verifiable Credentials

> 7. VP - Verifiable Presentations

Reviewer 3: Do we need a better explanation here, like in [did-btco](https://github.com/ordinalsreserve/did-btco/blob/main/spec.md#2-terminology) spec?

Author: @AlexMesser yes, I will update this.

Author: @AlexMesser updated with more details. Resolving the comment.

## DID ITN Method Specification

### Format

The ITN DID is derived as follow:

- A random 32 byte string is generated
- The seed is hashed using sha512
- An Ed25519 key pair is generated from the hash. The key pair will be used as the recovery key pair

> - The uuid of the did:itn is the base58 encoded value of public keys hexadecimal value

Reviewer 3: The identifier of the `did:itn` is the first 16 bytes of the public key encoded into Base58 format.

Author: @AlexMesser are you asking to add that point or update the last point (line 103)?

Reviewer 3: to update line 103

Author: @AlexMesser updated as per your request. Resolving the comment.

The format of ITN DID conform to the [W3C DID Core specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/). The W3C DID Core specification does not specify how a DID is generated, and leaves it up to the implementation provided it ensures uniqueness to a high degree of confidence.

**Note:** Format section ensures the ITN DID Format complies with [W3C DID Method Syntax](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#method-syntax)

### Operations

> Identity Protocol provides methods to manage DIDs.

Reviewer 2: it doesn't feel like we should use "Identity Protocol" here. Spec doesn't define what Identity Protocol is and probably we don't need such terminology here?

Author: @pleerock cc: @Therecanbeonlyone1969 

Can you suggest something? Or we can delete line 111.

Reviewer 2: either remove this description or add description which will omit "Identity Protocol" term. Dunno.

Author: Removing the description.

#### Create

> Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process anchors a DID and its DID document and delivers it to the requestor.

Reviewer 2: It's not clear what "ITN process" is. We have no such definition.

Author: @pleerock cc: @Therecanbeonlyone1969

That language was in the ITN Technical Paper. No worries we can update here. Do you have suggestions?

What I was trying to convey for Create operation was that there is a function that creates DID based on the data schema context file and ITN DID Method specification and associates its DID Document, anchors onto ITN and delivers it to the requestor.

Hope that is clear enough -- so those steps create DID, anchor DID & DID Document on to ITN and respond back to the requestor is what referred as ITN Process.

Reviewer 2: I just didn't know we had such term "ITN process".

Author: updated already. Resolving the comment.

Requirements:

> - `creator` input parameter can be a DID String or a DID document.

Reviewer 2: "input parameter" to what?

Reviewer 2: same comment in all other methods as well.

Author: @pleerock input parameter for the create DID function. That is why I added example code to avoid confusion.

Do you have any other suggestion?

Reviewer 2: in my understand it shouldn't be about the "code", thus some unclear parameters.

Description must be abstract, for example: https://gitlab.com/eratosthenes-h2020/erat-did-spec#read

Author: @pleerock thanks for sharing the example - I got the idea I will update it accordingly.

## Sample DID Document

```json
{
  "didDocument": {
    "@context": [
      "https://www.w3.org/ns/did/v1"
    ],
    "assertionMethod": [
      "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
    ],
    "authentication": [
      "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
    ],
    "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
    "keyAgreement": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ",
        "type": "X25519KeyAgreementKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ"
      }
    ],
    "verificationMethod": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
      }
    ]
  },
  "didDocumentMetadata": {
    "created": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "updated": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "deactivated": false,

>     "recoveryCommitment": "99cdefca761b58664641d3f0b89b4f1e04ad833b7a24a726e3424bc6c17f39a0"

Reviewer 3: this is the new `didDocumentMetadata` which includes DLT proofs. Please use it instead:
```json
"didDocumentMetadata": {
    "created": "2024-04-16T14:46:33Z",
    "updated": "2024-04-16T14:46:33Z",
    "deactivated": false,
    "recoveryCommitment": "b45a0730f9c3227eae0338c8f95e140cff12393e90272fd32f2f21dadd242df0",
    "hlfProof": {
        "dataHash": "a440e6586566c3370cf968a8fbee40620fc9ac70e2bc2d2c482902576183f30e",
        "blockNumber": "19519",
        "transactionId": "812cbef8d667c28e939e3ee8f46fe7550f11b6c0042ae8bc3c7965c7e93a262f"
    },
    "evmProof": {
        "blockHash": "0xadddd6ae2eddbe50117357e8fbcd3921c4b0c6e3be2859a0cc9a75920bf876e3",
        "blockNumber": 34291384,
        "txHash": "0x4da901b643c05025c262fff27c80f0a30cb635783d057bebd79ef4f5cfed07e7"
    }
}
```

Author: @AlexMesser thank you. I have updated the DID Document Sample. Resolving the comment.

2. Replay

Digital signatures utilized between the ITN and a user utilize nonces and DLT transactions on either of the utilized networks utilize both chainIds and account nonces to prevent DLT transaction replays.

3. Message Insertion

Since ITN communication channels are using asymmetric encryption, the only way to insert a message would be to gain access to the private keys used for encryption, DID AuthN, and VC signatures.

4. Deletion:

The DLT transactions on the two anchor DLTs cannot be deleted and DID document entries in the CAS can only be deleted by ITN Node Operators. ITN Node Operators are permissioned, and known legal entities. In addition, currently, only three ITN nodes have write permissions into the CAS. Lastly, existing CAS data redundancies make a CAS deletion not practical. 

5. Modification:

> Modifications of the DID anchoring transactions on the two DLTs cannot be modified. CAS DID doc entries could only be maliciously modified by three specific ITN Nodes. Furthermore, data redundancies with rollbacks make modification attacks useless. 

Reviewer 2: "cannot be modified" -> I think you meant something else.

6. Denial of Service (DoS):

The ITN can operate as long as one honest node is operational. This means that besides typical (D)DoS protections enterprises utilize, the node redundancies in the network mitigate a DoS attack.

7. Amplification:

> DIDs and VCs themselves do not amplify attacks. However, service providers implementing DID and VC systems should follow best practices to prevent abuse and exploitation of their services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All DID operations apart from DID creation require DID AuthN. Therefore, each attack on a DID operation endpoint requires a DID and a secure communications channel. Hence, any attacks are limited to that established channel which can be disconnected at any time by an Operator. Lastly, the DID creation operation also requires establishing a secure communications channel which again restricts any attack to that channel, and, therefore, mitigation is as already mentioned. DOSing a channel would lead to a blacklisting of the malicious DID and a new DID would have to be created to perform an attack. Since the network only requires one honestly operating node, attacks by individual nodes would be recognized by other network nodes and access to that node can be easily removed by each node operator in their node, isolating the malicious node. And since network transactions have to be reimbursed to the ITN as an organization, spamming attacks of a compromised node lead to economic damage to the Operator operating the malicious node. This is an economic security guarantee since all Node Operators are known legal entities to which exists legal recourse. 
```

Reviewer: @bparth24

2. While public keys and hashes of DID documents remain on the DLTs of the ITN, ITN will not maintain logs of IP addresses that requested ITN service operations, and, therefore, makes the correlation of a public key with personal data (the IP assigned to an individual’s router at a specific physical address by the ISP) from the point of view of the ITN, or an entity breaching the ITN, not possible. However, if a public key is used outside of the context of ITN more than once, then it may be subject to linkability to other personal data.

The reason why within ITN hashed data may be considered sufficiently anonymized is as follows: While hashed data may contain personal data through public keys or service endpoints in the DID documents, it is combined with randomized, non-personal data such as a DID itself, per European Commission (EC) guideline.

**Note:** Privacy Considerations section ensures the ITN DID Method Privacy considerations complies with [W3C DID Method Privacy Requirements](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#privacy-requirements)

## Appendix

> ITN SDK has crypto-ld-suite package that provides a set of functions to generate crypto keys for use with [@digitalbazaar/crypto-ld](https://github.com/digitalbazaar/crypto-ld) library, a set of functions to create and verify signatures for use with [@digitalbazaar/jsonld-signatures](https://github.com/digitalbazaar/jsonld-signatures) library and a set of utility functions for use with crypto keys.

Reviewer 2: SDK implementation details here as well.

Cryptographic Key Types supported

    Ed25519VerificationKey2018
    Ed25519VerificationKey2020
    X25519KeyAgreementKey2019
    X25519KeyAgreementKey2020
    EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019
    EcdsaSecp256r1VerificationKey2020
    EcdsaSecp384r1VerificationKey2020
    EcdsaSecp521r1VerificationKey2020
    RsaVerificationKey2018
    Bls12381G1Key2020
    Bls12381G2Key2020

Supported curves are:

    Ed25519
    X25519
    RSA
    P-256
    P-384
    P-521
    Bls12381G1
    Bls12381G2
    secp256k1

## Message Encryptor

> Provides a set of functions to encrypt and decrypt DIDComm messages. Message Encryptor supports two forms of message

Reviewer 2: It looks like API documentation here again. Don't think it should be there.

    ],
    "authentication": [
      "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
    ],
    "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
    "keyAgreement": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ",
        "type": "X25519KeyAgreementKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ"
      }
    ],
    "verificationMethod": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
      }
    ]
  },
  "didDocumentMetadata": {
    "created": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "updated": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "deactivated": false,
    "recoveryCommitment": "99cdefca761b58664641d3f0b89b4f1e04ad833b7a24a726e3424bc6c17f39a0"
  },
  "didResolutionMetadata": { }
}
```

## Security Considerations

> For all `did:itn` DIDs, the initial asset creation, and subsequent updates are executed using `Ed25519` keys, which are widely recognized as a robust and secure cryptographic mechanism. `Confirm With Umed & Andreas - if the keys are different. DELETE THIS COMMENT LATER.`

Author: @pleerock can you confirm if this is accurate or if anything needs to change? cc: @Therecanbeonlyone1969

- Authentication service utilizing [OAuth2](https://oauth.net/2/) for REST APIs and [DIF DID AuthN](https://identity.foundation/working-groups/authentication.html) for DIF DIDcomm messaging
- Keys are specified in the DID Document in Verification Methods object for various Verification Relationships.

> - ITN heavily relies on W3C DIDs (Decentralized Identifiers) and VCs (Verifiable Credentials) employ cryptographic mechanisms and decentralized trust models to mitigate the risks associated with various forms of attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ITN heavily relies on W3C DIDs (Decentralized Identifiers) and VCs (Verifiable Credentials) cryptographic mechanisms and decentralized trust models to mitigate the risks associated with various attacks.
```

> - Within ITN, actors of [W3C VC Data Model](https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model-2.0/) - Issuer, Holder, and Verifier MUST be an ITN DID associated with corresponding DID Document.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Here's how ITN can prevent the specific attacks outlined:

1. Eavesdropping

ITN DID can facilitate the establishment of secure communication channels between parties by encrypting messages exchanged between DIDs using cryptographic keys defined in the corresponding DID Documents. DIDs and VCs use cryptographic signatures to ensure that communication between parties is encrypted and authenticated. This prevents unauthorized interception and eavesdropping of sensitive information.

2. Replay

> VCs typically include timestamps & cryptogrphic signtaures to prevent replay attacks. Cryptographic signatures are generated using the cryptographic keys are defined in the corresponding DID Documents. Additionally, ITN DID can be combined with secure channels (e.g., HTTPS) to prevent unauthorized retransmission of captured communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Digital signatures utilized between the ITN and a user utilize nonces and DLT transactions on either of the utilized networks utilize both chainIds and account nonces to prevent DLT transaction replays.
```

3. Message Insertion

> VCs MUST be signed by the issuer, ensuring that any unauthorized insertion of messages would result in a signature mismatch and detection of tampering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since ITN communication channels are using asymmetric encryption, the only way to insert a message would be to gain access to the private keys used for encryption, DID AuthN, and VC signatures.
```

4. Deletion:

> `Need help here... not sure`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DLT transactions on the two anchor DLTs cannot be deleted and DID document entries in the CAS can only be deleted by ITN Node Operators. ITN Node Operators are permissioned, and known legal entities. In addition, currently, only three ITN nodes have write permissions into the CAS. Lastly, existing CAS data redundancies make a CAS deletion not practical. 
```

5. Modification:

> VCs ensure data integrity, as any unauthorized modification of messages would result in a signature mismatch and detection of tampering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modifications of the DID anchoring transactions on the two DLTs cannot be modified. CAS DID doc entries could only be maliciously modified by three specific ITN Nodes. Furthermore, data redundancies with rollbacks make modification attacks useless. 
```

6. Denial of Service (DoS):

> DIDs and VCs do not inherently prevent DoS attacks, but service providers can implement rate limiting, access controls, and other security measures to mitigate the impact of DoS attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ITN can operate as long as one honest node is operational. This means that besides typical (D)DoS protections enterprises utilize, the node redundancies in the network mitigate a DoS attack.
```

7. Amplification:

> DIDs and VCs themselves do not amplify attacks. However, service providers implementing DID and VC systems should follow best practices to prevent abuse and exploitation of their services.

Reviewer: makes no sense to me. this is focused on the DID method.

Author: @Therecanbeonlyone1969 

Okay. Can you help me here in that case?

Here is what I understand - Amplification attacks are a type of attack where the attacker exploits vulnerabilities in systems to amplify the impact of their attacks. This is commonly seen in Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks, where the attacker overwhelms a target system with an excessive amount of traffic, rendering it unable to respond to legitimate requests.

I was trying to relate it with the DIDs & VCs.

8. Man-in-the-Middle (MitM):

> DIDs and VCs use cryptographic techniques such as Decentralized public key infrastructure (DPKI) and cyrptographic signatures to prevent unauthorized interception and manipulation of communication between parties. By verifying cryptographic signatures associated with DIDs, parties can ensure the authenticity and integrity of messages, mitigating the risk of MitM attacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Asymmetric encryption of all ITN communication channels ensures a high degree of safety against MitM attacks unless the relevant private keys are compromised.
```

- The seed is hashed using sha512
- An Ed25519 key pair is generated from the hash. The key pair will be used as the recovery key pair
- The uuid of the did:itn is the base58 encoded value of public keys hexadecimal value

The format of ITN DID conform to the [W3C DID Core specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/). The W3C DID Core specification does not specify how a DID is generated, and leaves it up to the implementation provided it ensures uniqueness to a high degree of confidence.

**Note:** Format section ensures the ITN DID Format complies with [W3C DID Method Syntax](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#method-syntax)

### Operations

Identity Protocol provides methods to manage DIDs.

#### Create

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process anchors a DID and its DID document and delivers it to the requestor.
Constraints: Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

Requirements:

- `creator` input parameter can be a DID String or a DID document.
- The provided DID MUST be compliant with the did:itn method.
- The provided DID document MUST be compliant with the DID V1.0 DID document specification.

> `Note: Question to Umed -- as per below comments - if its just DID string - how & when DID Document is created then??`

Reviewer: remove

---

#### Resolve

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process delivers a DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.

> Constraints: Any entity should be able to invoke the process.

Reviewer: remove

      "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
    ],
    "authentication": [
      "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
    ],
    "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
    "keyAgreement": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ",
        "type": "X25519KeyAgreementKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6LSd76Tk2UJ3RVxcTjYjZ8TfvHMQgZG5HmbKPmCidPXyTGZ"
      }
    ],
    "verificationMethod": [
      {
        "id": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS#z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC",
        "type": "Ed25519VerificationKey2020",
        "controller": "did:itn:NL28Bubaa8xUmhJAARNkNS",
        "publicKeyMultibase": "z6MkiYmb7ncfDAAhcxtAAGsm1oySq4KYJtsi2wHaoKAnmVXC"
      }
    ]
  },
  "didDocumentMetadata": {
    "created": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "updated": "2023-11-10T15:20:59Z",
    "deactivated": false,
    "recoveryCommitment": "99cdefca761b58664641d3f0b89b4f1e04ad833b7a24a726e3424bc6c17f39a0"
  },
  "didResolutionMetadata": { }
}
```

> ---

Reviewer: can be removed

Reviewer: sample did doc should no be listed under a method but sepaeately

Author: Noted - Removed the constraint line. Moved the DID Document sample from the Resolve method.

#### Update

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process creates an updated DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.

> Constraints: Can only be called by the DID controller(s).

Reviewer: remove

Requirements:

- `receiver` input parameter can be a DID string or a DID Document.
- The provided DID string MUST be compliant with the did:itn method.
- The provided DID document MUST be compliant with the DID V1.0 DID document specification.

---

#### Revoke

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process revokes an existing DID and its DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.

> Constraints: Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

Reviewer: remove

Requirements:

- `did` input parameter MUST be a DID string that has to be revoked.
- `receiver` input parameter can be a DID string or a DID Document.
- The provided DID string MUST be compliant with the did:itn method.
- The provided DID document MUST be compliant with the DID V1.0 DID document specification.

---

#### Recover

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method, an ITN process recovers a DID and its DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.

> Constraints: Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

Reviewer: remove

**Draft Created:** April 10, 2024

**Latest Update:** April 11, 2024

**Contributors & Editors:**

1. [Andreas Freund](https://github.com/Therecanbeonlyone1969)
2. [Dmitry Zotov](https://github.com/AlexMesser)
3. [Parth Bhatt](https://github.com/bparth24)
4. [Umed Khudoiberdiev](https://github.com/pleerock)

## Abstract

Integrated Trust Network (ITN) is a community-built and operated network. The objective is to build a Federated Trust Layer (Core Services) and Business Automation Interoperability Infrastructure (User Agents) for ITN. The ITN Identifier is specified in accordance with the [W3C DID Core specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/).

ITN Identifier = ITN DID

The syntax of the identifier and accompanying data model used by the protocol is conformant with the [DID-CORE](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/) specification and shall be registered with the [DID-SPEC-REGISTRIES](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-spec-registries/).

For a detailed read on DID and other DID method specifications, one can refer [WebOfTrustInfo - DID Primer](https://github.com/WebOfTrustInfo/rwot5-boston/blob/master/topics-and-advance-readings/did-primer.md)

> ## Architecture Overview

Reviewer: @bparth24 we need an explanation on how did:itn works from an architectural point of view. That is most critical and totally missing. we have that stuff canned already. so it is cut-and-paste. Agent architecture, CAS, multi-chains etc.

Reviewer: We need an example upfront what a typical ITN DID doc looks like.

We also need to include what a resolved did doc looks like including meta-data since did resolution is part of the spec and not here afais.

Reviewer 2: Completely agree with @Therecanbeonlyone1969 .

This document must cover high level of what did:itn is from architectural point of view. More like a theory. We don't need all those "SDK" and "APIs". I would say I would start with zero implementation details, only abstractions and concepts. Other specifications I see don't have implementation details.

with a flexible plugin architecture.

Depending on which plugins and [DIDComm protocols](https://didcomm.org/search/?page=1) you use, your instance of ITN Agent can
perform a variety of roles:

* Create and manage cryptographic keys
* Create and manage Decentralized Identifiers
* Issue and verify Verifiable Credentials (VCs) and Presentations (VPs)
* Communicate with other Agents over [DIDComm](https://identity.foundation/didcomm-messaging/spec/#discover-features-protocol-20)

Agent provides a common interface for plugins to expand its functionality. It is designed to be modular and extensible,
so you can add new protocols, transports, and managers to fit your needs.

The agent was written in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) and runs natively in Node.js, Browsers, and React Native.

## ITN SDK

![ITN_SDK](https://github.com/itn-trust/itn-did-spec/assets/18353464/6135b073-c085-41fd-8ea4-f80e64e0485d)

One of the protocols is Identity Protocol provides methods to manage DIDs.
One of the managers is DID Document Manager provide a set of functions to manage DID Documents.

> `Conirm with Umed & Andreas - here I am only providing necessary information related to DIDs & DID Document. Is that okay?`

Reviewer: yes only related to the spec. "One of the protocols ...", and "One of the managers ..." is confusing better is"The ITN SDK's ...." instead of "One of ..."

Author: Noted and updated.

> ## Conformance

Reviewer: the SDK documentation must specify which elements are required and which are optional.

Example:: 
#### Create

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process anchors a DID and its DID document and delivers it to the requestor.
Constraints: Compliance with the DID data schema and DID method requirements. Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

The constraint section should be:
Requirements:
 - A DID document MUST be provided
 - The provided DID MUST be compliant with the did:itn method
 - The provided DID document MUST be compliant with the DID V1.0 DID document specification

That is how it should be an the words are in reference to RFC2119.

Author: Noted & updated the contstraints section in each of the Operations defined below - Create, Resolve, Update, Recover, Revoke. Updated the comment in the Deactivate operation.

Added the sameple DID Document in the `Resolve` operation section.

The keywords MAY, MUST, MUST NOT, RECOMMENDED, SHOULD, and SHOULD NOT in this document are to be interpreted... TBD `Not sure if required`

## Terminology

1. ITN - Integrated Trust Network
2. EDV - Encrypted Data Vault 

## DID ITN Method Specification

### Format

The ITN DID is derived as the sha3-256 hash of a random salt of sufficient entropy.

> The format of ITN DID conform to the [W3C DID Core specification](https://www.w3.org/TR/did-core/). It consists of `did:itn` prefix followed by `sha3-256(random salt)`. The W3C DID Core specification does not specify how a DID is generated, and leaves it up to the implementation provided it ensures uniqueness to a high degree of confidence.

Reviewer 3: the DID `identifier` creation is more complicated then simple hashing:
1. Generate random 32 bytes seed (for the Agent `primary` DID the seed is derived from the master key)
2. Get `sha512` hash of  the generated seed
3. Generate `Ed25519` keypair using hashed seed as a derivation seed - the generated keypair will be a Recovery keypair
4. Create DID identifier by encoding first 16 bytes of the Recovery keypair's public key into `Base58` format
5. Prefix the generated identifier with `did:itn`

Here is a pseudocode for the generation process:

```ts
const seed = randomBytes(32)
const seedHash = sha512(seed)
const keyPair = Ed25519.keyPair(seedHash)
const identifier = Base58.encode(keyPair.publicKey.slice(0, 16))
const did = `did:itn:${identifier}`
```

Recovery keypair stored in DID controller's wallet. The public key also stored in CAS. All subsequent operations on the DID (update, revoke, recover) are signed by **private** recovery key and verified by **public** recovery key. Verification process also includes the DID identifier validation - having the public recovery key, the verifier repeats steps 4 and 5 on his side and makes sure the DID matches the recovery key.

Reviewer 2: @bparth24 this is just for explanation purposes, it doesn't mean we should include such implementation details.

Reviewer: @pleerock this description of the identifier creation is actually required. Not in code but in words. 
- A random 32 byte string is generated
- The seed is hashed using sha512
- An Ed25519 key pair is generated from the hash. The key pair will be used as the recovery key pair
- The uuid of the did:itn is the base58 encoded value of public keys hexadecimal value

Author: Noted & Updated the Format section content.

Constraints: Compliance with the DID data schema and DID method requirements. Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

##### `create()` API

```ts
create({
  creator: DIDString | DIDDocument,
  newDID?: {
    didDoc: DIDDocument,
    recoveryKey: Ed25519VerificationKey2020,
  }
}): Promise<DIDDocument>
```
* `creator` - creator of the new DID, can be a DID string or DID document.
* `newDID.didDoc` - (optional) a pre-created DID Document.
* `newDID.recoveryKey` - (optional) a pre-created DID Document's recovery key.

Sends `CreateDIDMessage` to `creator` and receives `CreateDIDResponseMessage` message in `create-did-response` handler.

**example:**

```typescript
await agent.protocol(IdentityProtocol).create({ creator: "did:itn:TW7PbLSe2Ws8FCx675oFUU" })
```

---

#### Resolve

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method an ITN process delivers a DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.
Constraints: Compliance with the DID data schema context file and DID method requirements. Any entity should be able to invoke the process.

> ##### `getDIDDoc()` API

Reviewer 3: `getDIDDoc()` is not a DID Resolution. It simply loads DID Document from the Wallet. To resolve DID, the [agent.resolveDIDDoc()](https://github.com/itn-trust/itn/tree/master/packages/sdk/agent#resolvediddoc) function must be used.

Reviewer 2: @bparth24 same here: this is just for explanation purposes, it doesn't mean we should include such implementation details.

Author: Noted and updated.

Sends `RevokeDIDMessage` to `receiver` and receive `RevokeDIDResponseMessage` in `revoke-did-response` handler.

**example:**

```typescript

await agent
  .protocol(IdentityProtocol)
  .revoke({ did: "did:itn:8FcBrpSd5PTafaAzThsPbF", receiver: "did:itn:TW7PbLSe2Ws8FCx675oFUU" })
```

---

#### Recover

Description: Based on the DID data schema context file and DID method, an ITN process recovers a DID and its DID document in accordance with the W3C DID standard.
Constraints: Compliance with the DID data schema context file and DID method requirements. Can only be invoked by the DID controller(s).

##### `recover()` API

```ts
recover({ did: DIDString, receiver: DIDString | DIDDocument }): Promise<void>
```
* `did` - DID to be recovered.
* `receiver` - receiver of the recovery, can be a DID string or a DID document.

Sends `RecoverDIDMessage` to `receiver` and receive `RecoverDIDResponseMessage` in `recover-did-response` handler.

**example:**

```typescript

await agent.protocol(IdentityProtocol).recover({ did: "did:itn:8FcBrpSd5PTafaAzThsPbF", receiver: "did:itn:TW7PbLSe2Ws8FCx675oFUU" })
```

---

#### Deactivate

> The ITN DID Method does not have a Deactivate operation.

Reviewer 3: the Revoke DID flow also deactivates it

Author: @AlexMesser I see. thanks for the input and correcting me. In the past, @pleerock mentioned we do not have deactivate operation based on what I wrote above.

Reviewer 2: @bparth24 not sure about such conversation... maybe I missed / misunderstood something

Author: @pleerock it's okay. It was a conversation during the writing of one of the ITN Blogs. All good now.

**Note:** Operations section ensures the ITN DID Method Operations complies with [W3C DID Method Operations](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#method-operations)

## Security Considerations

> For all `did:itn` DIDs, the initial asset creation, and subsequent updates are executed using `Ed25519` keys, which are widely recognized as a robust and secure cryptographic mechanism. `Confirm With Umed & Andreas - if the keys are different. DELETE THIS COMMENT LATER.`

Reviewer: there are security guidlines in the did spec, please, list how did:itn complies with those guidelines.

Author: Looking into it.

## Privacy Considerations

The ITN can be classified as a data processor because 
1. in its business model, the ITN only deals with enterprises and not individuals, and, 
2. because the ITN does not determine the purpose and the means of data processing 

While it is true that the ITN determines the means of data processing, because of its federated nature, only the data controller can authorize data processing, in other words, determine its purpose.

### What Data is ITN storing and what does that mean with regard to data privacy?

> 

Reviewer: @bparth24 remove

ITN is only storing the following data:
- Public Keys in DID documents stored in our CAS, and in Smart Contracts stored on our DLTs
- Hashed data in Smart Contracts on our DLTs representing DID documents, in our CAS for our VC revocation lists, and aggregate application state data
- Service endpoints in DID documents on our CAS

In the ITN context, only Public Keys and Service Endpoints may refer to an individual. ITN ensures proper management in the following way:
1. DID documents may be deleted by their controllers, and, therefore, access to DID documents from the outside by a 3rd party is no longer possible.
2. While public keys and hashes of DID documents remain on the DLTs of the ITN, ITN will not maintain logs of IP addresses that requested ITN service operations, and, therefore, makes the correlation of a public key with personal data (the IP assigned to an individual’s router at a specific physical address by the ISP) from the point of view of the ITN, or an entity breaching the ITN, not possible. However, if a public key is used outside of the context of ITN more than once, then it may be subject to linkability to other personal data.   

> The reason why within ITN hashed data may be considered sufficiently anonymized is as follows: While hashed data may contain personal data through public keys or service endpoints in the DID documents, it is combined with randomized, non-personal data such as a DID itself, per EC guideline.

Reviewer: @bparth24 EC = European Commission

> Note that the permissioned DLTs of the ITN are not directly accessible from the outside by 3rd parties.

Reviewer: @bparth24 remove
